Key facts on Employment Pass
Get a quick overview of the Employment Pass (EP) to decide if it is the right pass for you. 

Pass facts
Find out key facts about the pass:

Who it is for	Foreign professionals, managers and executives with a job offer in Singapore who meet the eligibility criteria.
Who can apply	
An employer or appointed employment agent needs to apply on behalf of the candidate.

For an overseas company without a Singapore-registered office, you need to apply through a local sponsor.

Qualifying salary	
Fixed monthly salary comparable to the top one-third of local PMET salaries, starting from $5,000 and increases progressively with age, up to $10,500 for those in the mid-40s. 

Candidates in the financial services sector need higher salaries to qualify.

What is the duration	
The duration of the pass is as follows:

First-time candidates: up to 2 years
Renewals: up to 3 years
Experienced tech professionals with skills in shortage may be eligible for a longer 5-year duration pass.

Is it renewable	Yes. Find out how to renew.
Passes for family	Available for eligible pass holders.
Foreign worker levy or quota	No foreign worker levy or quota required.
Medical insurance	Employers can choose whether to provide medical insurance for EP holders.
Relevant legislation	
Conditions of Work Pass
Employment of Foreign Manpower Act
Related eServices and forms	Access online services and forms for Employment Pass.
Pass map
Overview of what you need to do before, during and after you apply for an Employment Pass.

Step 1 of 4

Statistics and publications
Before applying

Step 2 of 4

Statistics and publications
Before arrival

Step 3 of 4

Statistics and publications
Upon arrival

Step 4 of 4

Statistics and publications
When required

Before applying

Advertise on MyCareersFuture and consider all candidates fairly.

Know the eligibility and requirements to apply.

Find out the documents required for applying.
Note: Pass holders may be required to pay income tax.

