Work passes for holders of Long-Term Visit Passes issued by ICA
If you are holding a Long-Term Visit Pass (LTVP) issued by Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA), you can work in Singapore only if you get a work pass.

Note:

You are not allowed to work in objectionable occupations such as a dance hostess or a masseur.
Your LTVP should have a validity of at least 4 months remaining if you wish to apply for a Work Permit.
Spouses and children under 21 years old of Singaporeans and PRs
If you do not have an LTVP or LTVP+ from ICA, then you cannot work in Singapore unless you qualify for an Employment Pass, S Pass or Work Permit on your own merit.
Holding LTVP or LTVP+
If you are holding a Long-Term Visit Pass (LTVP or LTVP+) issued by ICA, you can work in Singapore if you get a Letter of Consent (LOC).

You first need to find a job in Singapore and get the employer to apply for an LOC for you.

LTVP and LTVP+ holders are not affected by the changes to the work arrangements of Dependant’s Pass holders.
Apply or renew LTVP or LTVP+
If you are applying for, or renewing, your LTVP or LTVP+ with ICA, you will be given the option to apply for a Pre-approved Letter of Consent (PLOC).

The PLOC allows LTVP or LTVP+ holders to work in Singapore without the need to find a job first.

Note: PLOC holders are not allowed to work in some restricted occupation such as journalist, editor, sub-editor, producer, or in any religious occupation. To work in these occupations, your prospective employer need to apply for an LOC.

Other family members of Singaporeans and permanent residents
Parents or parents-in-law of Singaporeans and permanent residents who are holding an LTVP can work in Singapore on a Work Permit. They will only be counted under the employer's overall quota.

The rest of family members who are not holding an LTVP will need to qualify for an Employment Pass, S Pass or Work Permit on their own merit to work in Singapore.

Parents accompanying a child studying in Singapore
If you are a Long-Term Visit Pass holder accompanying a child who is studying in Singapore, you are not allowed to work during your first year here.

This is to encourage you to spend more time with your child and help him or her adjust to Singapore's education system.

After you have been in Singapore for a year, you can find a job and your employer can apply for a Work Permit for you. Your employer needs to apply for the permit using WP Online.

Under the Work Permit, you are:

Able to work in any sector.
Not subject to source country restriction.
Only counted under your employer's overall quota.
Subject to the foreign worker levy.
Not allowed to work in objectionable occupations (bar or dance hostess, masseur, etc.).
You will need these documents to apply for a Work Permit:

Copy of the child’s student pass.
Copy of the child’s birth certificate.
Letter from the child's school indicating your child's current education level.
Copy of your current LTVP.
Copy of your passport personal particulars page.
Your Work Permit will only be valid if your ICA-issued LTVP is valid. If your LTVP expires or is cancelled, your Work Permit will expire or be cancelled as well. You will need to apply for a regular work pass (e.g. S Pass, Employment Pass) if you wish to continue working. Approval is subject to the prevailing criteria for the respective work pass categories, such as salary, quota or source countries.